                ```{Final Project Problem Options}```

Max 3-Sat

    generalises the Boolean satisfiability problem (SAT) which is a decision problem considered in complexity theory. It is defined as:
    Given a 3-CNF formula Φ (i.e. with at most 3 variables per clause), find an assignment that satisfies the largest number of clauses.
    MAX-3SAT is a canonical complete problem for the complexity class MAXSNP (shown complete in Papadimitriou pg. 314).

Max clique

    given a group of vertices some of which have edges in between them, the maximal clique is the largest subset of vertices in which each 
    point is directly connected to every other vertex in the subset. Every time a new point is added, the number of total cliques that must 
    be searched at least doubles; hence we have an exponentially growing problem.

Traveling Saleman Problem (TSP) with a complete graph

    A traveling salesman wishes to go to a certain number of destinations in order to sell objects. He wants to
    travel to each destination exactly once and return home taking the shortest total route.
    Each voyage can be represented as a graph G = (V, E) where each destination, including his home, is a
    vertex, and if there is a direct route that connects two distinct destinations then there is an edge between
    those two vertices. The traveling salesman problem is solved if there exists a shortest route that visits each
    destination once and permits the salesman to return home. (This route is called a Hamiltonian Cycle and
    will be explained in Chapter 2.)
    The traveling salesman problem can be divided into two types: the problems where there is a path between
    every pair of distinct vertices (no road blocks), and the ones where there are not (with road blocks). Both
    of these types of TSP problems are explained in more detail in Chapter 6.
        https://www.mathematics.pitt.edu/sites/default/files/TSP.pdf

Longest Path

    The problem of finding a simple path of maximum length in a given graph. A path is called simple if it does not have any repeated vertices;
    the length of a path may either be measured by its number of edges, or (in weighted graphs) by the sum of the weights of its edges. 
    In contrast to the shortest path problem, which can be solved in polynomial time in graphs without negative-weight cycles, 
    the longest path problem is NP-hard and the decision version of the problem, which asks whether a path exists of at least some given length, is NP-complete. 
    This means that the decision problem cannot be solved in polynomial time for arbitrary graphs unless P = NP. Stronger hardness results are also known showing 
    that it is difficult to approximate. However, it has a linear time solution for directed acyclic graphs,
    which has important applications in finding the critical path in scheduling problems.

Load Balancing

    refers to the process of distributing a set of tasks over a set of resources (computing units), 
    with the aim of making their overall processing more efficient. Load balancing can optimize the
    response time and avoid unevenly overloading some compute nodes while other compute nodes are left idle.
    Load balancing is the subject of research in the field of parallel computers. Two main approaches exist: 
    static algorithms, which do not take into account the state of the different machines, and dynamic algorithms, 
    which are usually more general and more efficient, but require exchanges of information between the 
    different computing units, at the risk of a loss of efficiency.

Maximum Bin packing

    an optimization problem, in which items of different sizes must be packed into a finite number of bins or containers, 
    each of a fixed given capacity, in a way that minimizes the number of bins used. The problem has many applications,
    such as filling up containers, loading trucks with weight capacity constraints, 
    creating file backups in media and technology mapping in FPGA semiconductor chip design.

Min Graph Coloring

    In graph theory, graph coloring is a special case of graph labeling; it is an assignment of labels traditionally 
    called "colors" to elements of a graph subject to certain constraints. In its simplest form, it is a way of 
    coloring the vertices of a graph such that no two adjacent vertices are of the same color; this is called a vertex coloring. 
    Similarly, an edge coloring assigns a color to each edge so that no two adjacent edges are of the same color, 
    and a face coloring of a planar graph assigns a color to each face or region so that no two faces that share a boundary have the same color.

Minimal k-cut

    In mathematics, the minimum k-cut, is a combinatorial optimization problem that requires finding a set of edges whose removal would partition 
    the graph to at least k connected components. These edges are referred to as k-cut. The goal is to find the minimum-weight k-cut. 
    This partitioning can have applications in VLSI design, data-mining, finite elements and communication in parallel computing.

Max Knapsack

    The knapsack problem is a problem in combinatorial optimization: Given a set of items, each with a weight and a value, 
    determine the number of each item to include in a collection so that the total weight is less than or equal to 
    a given limit and the total value is as large as possible.

Max Cut

    For a graph, a maximum cut is a cut whose size is at least the size of any other cut. That is, it is a partition of 
    the graph's vertices into two complementary sets S and T, such that the number of edges between the set S and the set T is as large as possible. 
    The problem of finding a maximum cut in a graph is known as the Max-Cut Problem.
    The problem can be stated simply as follows. One wants a subset S of the vertex set such that the number of edges 
    between S and the complementary subset is as large as possible. Equivalently, one wants a bipartite subgraph of the graph with as many edges as possible.